Tor Cloud

Users on the Internet are being introduced to many cloud-based services.
Amazon Web Service offers a cloud based hosting service called EC2. Users are
able to launch virtual machines and pay only for what they use. Tor network can
always use more bandwidth and more nodes in different places around the globe.
Spot Instances are a new way to purchase and consume Amazon EC2 Instances at
discounted rates. They allow customers to bid on unused Amazon EC2 capacity and
run those instances for as long as their bid exceeds the current Spot Price. 

We can take advantage of these savings and offer people a way to run relays and
bridges on the Amazon cloud with little or no technical experties. 
The Tor project would maintain it's own AMI on Amaozn S3 which public can 
launch and quickly add capacity to the Tor network. 

We should offer a number of Pricing and Bandwidth tiers. We can have packages 
as low as $10/month. (needs to be re-calculated and tested)


AMI - Ubuntu on Amazon EC2
Canonical, the corporation behind Ubuntu operating system maintains an updated
AMI of the latest versions of Ubuntu operating system. We can create our scripts
to work with these official nodes: http://cloud.ubuntu.com/ami/

There AMIs are total of 5 datacenters in 4 countries in the world, we should
come up with a plan to distribute our Amazon cloud nodes among all 5 locations:

Countires: 
USA, Ireland, Tokyo, Singapore

Datacenteres:
- asia pacific northeast-1 
- asia pacific southeast-1
- europe-west-1
- us-east-1
- us-west-1


TODO: we must change the design, so each instance is owned by a separate Amazon account, rather than having them all
under one dev-pay account!

Amazon Dev-Pay - easy billing and payment processing

We can take advantage of Amazon Dev-Pay in order to make the process of
launching Tor nodes seamless to the user.
We will create a webpage with a few options to launch Tor Cloud AMIs. 
We will have 1 option creted for lowest possible dollar amount and 2 or 
more with higher bandwidth and resources. Tor can add a surcharge to this
product in order to also generate income, while growing the Tor network. 
At minimum we should charge the cost of dev-pay which is about 3%.


We want to minimize the number of steps to enhance the usability of this
service, Proposed steps:

1. Login to cloud.torproject.org
2. Select desired Tor image.
3. login with amazon account/signup for amazon account
4. Start Node.
5. Stop/Paus Node.



Requirements:

- Dedicated amazon account for dev-pay purpose only
- Build machines
- Sign up for dev-pay with amazon
- register a product
- create AMI
- associate AMI with product
- create website at: cloud.torproject.org


Design:		20 hours of design
Programming:	40 hours
Testing:	20 hours

